Suggests recipes from data provided by SSH Camera

In shared student accommodations, meal planning and grocery management can often be chaotic and inefficient for students, due to multiple housemates sharing food storage spaces and ingredients. Currently, students must manually check their fridges to keep track of ingredients, which often leads to food waste or unnecessary repeated purchases. Additionally, students may lack experience in cooking, which results in them relying heavily on eating out or ordering takeaways, contributing to unhealthy eating habits and unnecessary expenses. The Student Smart Homes (SSH) ecosystem already provides many smart devices, such as the SSH Camera, which tracks activity in key areas of the house. One of the promising applications of this technology is using the SSH A camera will be used to monitor fridge contents and suggest recipes based on available ingredients. We'd like to extend the functionality of the SSH Cloud by incorporating a recipe suggestion feature that uses data from the SSH Camera to analyse fridge contents and recommend meals. To make this system more practical, we will also introduce an additional camera in the kitchen cabinet which monitors non-perishable ingredients like spices, pasta, rice, and canned goods. This feature will help reduce food waste, save money, and encourage students to cook more at home by providing easy-to-follow recipes. This project will be suitable in a shared accommodation as SSH Cloud has an existing feature that bills students for using items that do not belong to them. SSH’s goal is to provide student-focused solutions that simplify daily tasks to improve the overall living experience, and this project perfectly aligns with it. Leveraging existing SSH hardware and cloud infrastructure, it is perfect for rental homes as it does not require permanent changes to the accommodation. This feature will provide real-time benefits and foster healthier habits by reducing the reliance on eating out while reinforcing SSH’s position as a leader in smart home technology for student accommodations# SSH-AGIS-Recipe-Suggestion-System
